What is EC2, Why do we need EC2 service in cloud computing ?
ans : Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2) is a web service that provides secure, resizable compute capacity in the cloud. It is designed to make web-scale cloud 
computing easier for developers. Amazon EC2's simple web service interface allows you to obtain and configure capacity with minimal friction.

Features of Amazon EC2 ?
ans : Global Infrastructure,Cost and Capacity Optimization, Storage, Networking, Operating Systems and Software, Maintenance, Intended Usage And Restriction.

What is Hypervisor ? and its types ?
ans : A hypervisor is a software that creates and manages virtual machines (VMs) on a physical server, allowing multiple operating systems to run concurrently on the same hardware.
Types of hypervisors:
Type 1 (Bare Metal): Installed directly on the physical hardware, providing high performance and efficiency.
Type 2 (Hosted): Installed on top of an existing operating system, suitable for development and testing environments.

Where we use hypervisor?
ans : Hypervisors are used to create and manage virtual machines, enabling efficient resource utilization, scalability, and flexibility across various computing environments.
     A hypervisor is a software that you can use to run multiple virtual machines on a single physical machine.The hypervisor allocates the underlying physical computing resources such as CPU and memory 
      to individual virtual machines as required.

Steps to create an EC2 instance.
ans : Step 1: Sign in to the AWS Management Console. EC2 dashboard. 
Step 2: Choose a name of your instance. 
Step 3: Choose an Amazon Machine Image (AMI) 
Step 4: Choose an Instance Type. 
Step 5: Create a key pair. 
Step 6: Configure Security Group. 
Step 7: Add Storage. 
Step 8: Review and Launch.

EC2 Instance state ?
ans : Running, Pending, Rebooting, Terminated, Stoped.

How many types of EC2 Instance-State codes ?
ans : There are seven types of EC2 instance-state codes.
     Pending Code: 0
     Running Code: 16
     Shutting Down Code:32
     Terminated Code: 48
     Stopping Code: 64
     Stopped Code: 80

What is the meaning of server hibernating mode ?
ans : Server hibernating mode is a state where a server's operating system and applications are temporarily 
paused or put into a low-power state to conserve energy while preserving the current system state.

What is KMS ?
ans : KMS stands for Key Management Service, which is a managed service provided by AWS for creating and controlling encryption keys used to encrypt data.

AWS Amazon EC2 Instance types ?
ans :  general purposes : balanced the momory and cpu
     compute optimize : more cpu than RAM
     memory optimized : more RAM
     accelerated computing and gpu : graphics optimization
     storage optimization : low latancy 
     high memory optimizated : high RAM NITRO SYSTEM.

How many types of status checks happen in aws ?
ans :2/2 - ALL ok
    0/1-  Software issue
    0/2-  hardware issue

When we see the global view option in ec2 service ?
ans : Amazon EC2 Global View lets you see your virtual servers and networking setups across different areas all in one place, 
     making it easier to manage them without switching between multiple screens.

When we logged into the cloud account by default why do we always jump into the north virginia region, why it’s most popular ?
ans : Bcz it is an 1st region launched by AWS When any new service oer resources are comes in AWS so 1st it launch in VIRGINIAN region,
    High availability of this region bcz It has 6 AZs.

What are EBS Volumes and its types ?
ans : Elastic Block Store (EBS) volumes are block-level storage devices for Amazon EC2 instances, offering persistent and flexible storage options. 
Types include General Purpose (SSD), Provisioned IOPS (SSD), Cold HDD, Throughput Optimized HDD, and Magnetic.

Purpose of Using EBS volumes ?
ans : It's like a storage disk with the ability to contain various sizes of data. 
     These virtual storage devices usually replicate within one AWS region to increase their availability. 
     EBS volumes provide additional storage for EC2 instances, similar to a hard drive.

How many types of purchasing options do we have in aws ec2 ?
ans : AWS provides four main options to purchase Amazon EC2 Instances. 
      On demand- 
     Dedicated host
     Dedicated instance 
     Spot instance
     Reserved instance


Difference between AWS AMI Image & AWS Template ?
ans :  We create Template for autoscaling group it means when instance are created same replica \
    created which we are configured in template.    
    AWS AMI image means backup of software or volume
    suppose that you have instance all webserver application are configured and you need another instance 
    with same configuration so why we need to waste time for creating another instance
    Create Image of existing instance after create instance from AMI IMAGE. 

What is NIC & it’s types ?
ans :  NIC is a Network Interface Card.it is used to that hardware component that allows a device to connect to a network. 
     Types include Ethernet NICs for wired connections and Wi-Fi NICs for wireless connections.

What is elastic IP ? & WHY were we used ?
ans : Elastic IP means reserved public ip addressed like it will not change over time when we stopped an EC2 machine
    bcz it will change when we stopped an ec2 m/c. The main purpose of these IPs is to mask the failure of software or instance from your AWS account.

What is the snapshot of why we use it ?
ans :  A snapshot is a point-in-time backup of an EBS volume in AWS, used for data backup, disaster recovery, and creating new volumes with the same data.

How can we save money in snapshot costing, if an automated snapshot has been created ?
ans : To save money on snapshot costs, regularly review and delete outdated or unused snapshots to avoid unnecessary storage charges.

What is the lifecycle manager in snapshot ?
ans :  suppose we have to take backup/snapshot of volumes daily,monthly,weekly
    For that create lifecycle manager policy defines time and frequency on the basis of policy it takes snapshot at given time.

How does the Amazon lifecycle manager work ?
ans : we create policy and add volums with help of tags & defines frequency and time
    on the basis of frquency and given time it takes snapshot
    suppose we give frquency dailt specify time 9:00AM every day at 9:00AM snapshot will be created.
 
Difference between Security Group & NACL ?
ans : SG work on firewall at the  instance level where nacl are stateless
    NACL work on firewall at the subnet and VPC level where dg are statefull.

What are NACL & Its types ?
ans :
How many IP Addresses can we attach to the instances ?
ans :  Public and private.

How many types of volume states do we have ?
ans :  Creating
    available
    In use
    Deleting 
    Deleted.

What is a key pair, and its types ?
ans :  Key pair is an secure login information for of your instances
    with help of key pair we login an remote m/c on our local machine
    Public key and private key
    Public is stored to AWS and pvt key files is store on our local m/c.

What is load balancer and its types ?
ans : load balancer distributes incoming web application traffic across multiple targets/instances in multiple AZ.
    Types :- classical, application, network and gateway.

How does the load balancer work in the backend? Can you explain it ?
ans : Whenever traffic comes on load balancer listeners check for connection request from clients with help of ports what you configured
    it will forward tarffic to registered targets using round robin algorithm.
    LB continously monitor instance health using ping if any instance is unhealthhy it will forward traffic to only healthy instances.
    
Features of Load Balancers ?
ans : Provide fault taulerance and high availability
    ALB allows you to route traffic based on the URL path we mention path in listeners rule.
    In nlb maximum amount pass in minimum time

What is ASG ? & Its types ?
ans :  Basically ASG will decide desire, maximum, minimum size of autoscaling group.
    We wiil define capacity of instances as per our requirement we also give target values of cpu
    utilization. On the basis of that it will scale up and scale down targets when traffic increases.

What is a Health Check ?
ans :  It check healths of instance where an instance face any problem like software or hardware problem.

What is the threshold ?
ans :  it means specific value limit. Whenever it reaches value limit after action is performed.

What is the group of LB ?
ans : It is an Target Groups
    Target Group nothing but an group of targets (lambda, instance, ALB)
    Target Groups are used with Application Load Balancers and Network Load Balancers.

Why do we prefer ALB over ALB ?

Difference between Web server & Application server ?
ans : webserver:- 
    responsibility of a web server is to handle HTTP requests.
    webserver is serves only static content to end users\
    no need database connectivity bcz severs static content.
    example: apache http, nginx , A simple portfolio website with fixed content and no user interaction
Application server:- 
    responsibility of an application server is to execute application code and generate dynamic content based on client requests.
    The application server executes server-side code, processes dynamic requests, interacts with databases, and generates content based on user input.
    The application server communicates with the database to fetch or update information as needed.
    example :- apache tomcat, An e-commerce website with product listings, user accounts, and shopping cart functionality database to store product and user data.

What is the target group ?
ans :  When we use ALB at that time we have to create Target group
    We add targets (instances, lambda, alb) in target group, and add Target group ALB.

What is the desired capacity in ASG ?
ans :  It means minumim no of running servers when we launch ASG after it creates instances
    Suppose we have to give Desired capacity 2 so in every situation minimum 3 instances runs load will increase or decrease no matters.

How many types of the Scaling option ?
ans :  Vertical scaling
    Horizontal Scaling.

Scaling plans ?
1] dynamic scaling - a]target tracking policy
                     b]simple scali9ng
                    c] step scaling
2]schedule scalimg
3]predictive scaling

Types Auto scaling?
ans : Dynamic scaling
    Predictive scaling 
    Schedule Scaling

Difference between vertical scaling and horizontal scaling ?
ans : vertical scaling:- we scale up manually existing instance rather than create replica of existing instance.
      Horizontal Scaling:- It means whenever traffic increses it will automatically scale up same replica of instance what will you configure in template

Difference between AMI & Snapshot ?
ans : AMI consist of application servers and os which are need to create instances
    Snapshot is backup of only volumes.

Q103.What is difference between EBS/EFS/S3
      EBS :- Ebs is an block level storage & block storage divide data into blocks
           OS are install in EBS & It is used in form of HDD and SSD.
           it is AZ specific
     EFS:- It is mount on instance and it can mount on more thatn 1 instance
          using efs we share files to all mounted instance
          it is an region specific
    S3:- It is an object level storage when we storage any object it will store as it is not divides into blocks
        We store meta data.
